README.md, before:

# SHARK UI

## Introduction

Welcome to SHARK UI! This repo contains a basic app to demonstrate how to use the [Shortfin](https://github.com/nod-ai/shark-ai/tree/main/shortfin) Web APIs for text-to-image and text-to-text inference.

## Installation

To get SHARK UI up and running:

1. Clone the project

    ```shell
    git clone https://github.com/nod-ai/shark-ui.git
    cd shark-ui
    ```

1. Configure dependencies
    1. [Install node and npm](https://nodejs.org/en/download)

        1. Prefer the latest LTS version of node (even-numbered major version)
        2. For "using", select `nvm` if available, otherwise select `fnm`
        3. For "with", select `npm`
    1. Install project dependencies, by running (from the project root):

        ```shell
        npm install
        ```

1. Add your environment to the project root:

    ```shell
    echo "VITE_TEXT_TO_IMAGE_API_ORIGIN=http://<shortfin-server-ip-address>:<server-port>" > .env
    ```

    OR

    ```shell
    echo "VITE_TEXT_TO_IMAGE_API_ORIGIN=http://www.example.com" > .env
    ```

    NOTE: https is not yet supported

## Usage

1. If you haven't already:
    1. [Complete installation](#installation)
    1. Serve the text-to-image API from Shortfin, i.e. [for SDXL](https://github.com/nod-ai/shark-ai/tree/main/shortfin/python/shortfin_apps/sd)
1. Serve the project (and avoid minification) by running:

    ```shell
    npm run dev 
    ```

1. Open the "Network" URL in your browser of choice.
1. Take it for a spin!

## Development

1. If you haven't already, [complete the basic installation](#installation)
1. In [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/), [add the extensions recommended by the project](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/getstarted/tips-and-tricks#_extension-recommendations).
1. Serve the project with HMR by running:

    ```shell
    npm run dev
    ```

    NOTE: Shows [Vue Dev Tools](https://devtools.vuejs.org/getting-started/features) for debugging UI
1. Lint early and often with [ESLint](https://eslint.org/) by running:

    ```sh
    npm run lint
    ```

1. Run Unit Tests with [Vitest](https://vitest.dev/):

    ```sh
    npm run test:unit
    ```

1. Run End-to-End Tests against the development server with [Cypress](https://www.cypress.io/):

    ```sh
    npm run test:e2e:dev
    ```

    NOTE: It is much faster than doing so against the production build.

## Deployment

1. If you haven't already, [complete the basic installation](#installation)
1. Type-Check, compile and minify for production by running:

    ```sh
    npm run build
    ```

1. Test the production build (e.g. in CI environments):

    ```sh
    npm run test:e2e
    ```

Commit message:

build: simplifies usage to localhost (#54)

README.md, after:

# SHARK UI

## Introduction

Welcome to SHARK UI! This repo contains a basic app to demonstrate how to use the [Shortfin](https://github.com/nod-ai/shark-ai/tree/main/shortfin) Web APIs for text-to-image and text-to-text inference.

## Installation

To get SHARK UI up and running:

1. Clone the project

    ```shell
    git clone https://github.com/nod-ai/shark-ui.git
    cd shark-ui
    ```

1. Configure dependencies
    1. [Install node and npm](https://nodejs.org/en/download)

        1. Prefer the latest LTS version of node (even-numbered major version)
        2. For "using", select `nvm` if available, otherwise select `fnm`
        3. For "with", select `npm`
    1. Install project dependencies, by running (from the project root):

        ```shell
        npm install
        ```

1. Add your environment to the project root:

    - Run:

        ```shell
        echo "VITE_TEXT_TO_IMAGE_API_ORIGIN=http://localhost:<server-port>" > .env
        ```

    - **If you are connecting to a server on a virtual machine**, have your local machine forward the port.
        - Helps when the VM has a firewall
        - i.e. via SSH:

            ```shell
            ssh -L <server-port>:localhost:<local-port> user@server_origin
            ```

    NOTE: https is not yet supported

## Usage

1. If you haven't already:
    1. [Complete installation](#installation)
    1. Serve the text-to-image API from Shortfin, i.e. [for SDXL](https://github.com/nod-ai/shark-ai/tree/main/shortfin/python/shortfin_apps/sd)
1. Serve the project (and avoid minification) by running:

    ```shell
    npm run dev 
    ```

1. Open the "localhost" URL in your browser of choice.
1. Take it for a spin!

## Development

1. If you haven't already, [complete the basic installation](#installation)
1. In [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/), [add the extensions recommended by the project](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/getstarted/tips-and-tricks#_extension-recommendations).
1. Serve the project with HMR by running:

    ```shell
    npm run dev
    ```

    NOTE: Shows [Vue Dev Tools](https://devtools.vuejs.org/getting-started/features) for debugging UI
1. Lint early and often with [ESLint](https://eslint.org/) by running:

    ```sh
    npm run lint
    ```

1. Run Unit Tests with [Vitest](https://vitest.dev/):

    ```sh
    npm run test:unit
    ```

1. Run End-to-End Tests against the development server with [Cypress](https://www.cypress.io/):

    ```sh
    npm run test:e2e:dev
    ```

    NOTE: It is much faster than doing so against the production build.

## Deployment

1. If you haven't already, [complete the basic installation](#installation)
1. Type-Check, compile and minify for production by running:

    ```sh
    npm run build
    ```

1. Test the production build (e.g. in CI environments):

    ```sh
    npm run test:e2e
    ```
